# `ws` – my personal website

This repository contains my personal website.

## Design Decisions

The goal of this project is to create a fast, lightweight and portable website that is still visually pleasing, easily extendable and deployable.
Those requirements lead to some interesting design decisions.
Be advised that these are strongly opinionated and may not reflect your views/suit your needs!

The website should be:
- deterministically generated by a static site generator (i.e. [`jekyll`](https://jekyllrb.com/))
- [designed to last](https://jeffhuang.com/designed_to_last/):
  - single page
  - no `javascript`
  - minimal, ideally classless, `CSS` definitions
  - `<100kB` weight in total
- optimized for accessability

## Repository Structure

The structure of this repository is based on the typical `jekyll` skeleton.
It is designed with a hybrid approach in mind.
This means that the repository contains both a `flake.nix` to build and host the website locally with `nix` as well as a `Gemfile` for non-nix builds with `bundler` and `jekyll` (e.g. for hosting on GitHub).

## Usage

### nix:
- build the `ws` derivation and make it available in the nix store:
```shell
nix build
```
- locally serve the contents of the `ws` derivation from the nix store:
```shell
nix run
```
- drop into a build environment:
```shell
nix develop
```
  here you can:
  - execute bundle commands manually with `bundle [install|update|exec ...]`
  - update gemfile.nix with `bundix`

### non-nix:
- install gems in the local directory with versions from Gemfile:
```shell
bundle install
```
- update gems in Gemfile to their latest version:
```shell
bundle update
```
- build website:
```shell
bundle exec jekyll build
```
- serve website:
```shell
bundle exec jekyll serve
```

### CI/CD

WIP

## License & Copyright

Inspired by the classless `CSS` framework [`spcss`](https://github.com/susam/spcss).

This is free and open source software.
You can use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of it, under the terms of the MIT License.
See [LICENSE.md](./LICENSE.md) for details.